there are really three primary purposes
in having done this paper one is to
provide one example of what i think is
sustainable elearning practice from a
practitioner perspective the second
doing paper is to provide a case example
of problem-based learning which involves
group based activities of the authentic
nature is one can or where there's peer
moderated assessment and that the third
purpose which is the title of the paper
today is to do a little bit of an
evaluation on the usefulness of wikis at
a fundamental level wiki's are often
categorized called e-learning 2.0 or web
2.0 which to a great degree represents a
change in the way that technology for
education has been thought about and
prominently represents a shift from an
emphasis on transmission based teaching
learning to all constructivist approach
in terms of the data that I'll show you
it's based on post course survey a very
small scale all of these people are
currently employed as teachers in the
vocational sector and they're
undertaking postgraduate studies in
teacher training I was interested with
wiki's where there's a very high level
of optimism in the literature so it did
a bit of a search on eight of the major
educational databases for wiki and
education and I came up with 633
publications 632 of which I would
classify as being in the form of
promotion description technical matters
and declarations with no evidence
whatsoever and i found one report that
provided information related to student
satisfaction so i thought well maybe
it's a bit early to find stuff in the
academic journal so looked at the
conference papers from the 2007 sqlite
conference and of all the papers that
were presented only one paper provided
any empirical evidence related to the
use of wicked based on that that I was
interested to find out what people that
I deal with the wiki was implemented in
the context of course called
facilitating learning in the workplace
and in the first place we engaged in a
lecture tutorial session the within five
wiki supported sessions they were based
on a problem based approach and
group based activity with about four or
five learners in each group based on
trying to get a representation males and
females people who have experience in
workplace learning people who didn't
have experience in workplace learning
and so on and so forth and the case
based examples commenced with minimal
detail I engaged in an induction session
early on which focused on two aspects
firstly the operation of the group and
secondly the operation of the technology
so here we have the pages that are
involved as a home page page on Team
details design considerations design
principles designs considered
recommendations records of meetings and
references and resources now that's the
shall I give them there's not very much
on each of those pages they are free to
change the shell to a different
configuration or different sets of pages
if they want the the problem your team
is required to develop a work based
training plan for the context described
below so the expectation is that as a
group they will work as a consultant in
a consultancy fashion the information
they get is very brief ABC packaging
produces packing materials and then
assault through retail outlets and
basically then it goes on to say that
they're undergoing a change that in this
company it's a long established company
primarily mechanical production going to
a more computerized production so they
are now charged with that information to
go away and create training as part of
the process what they do is they make
appointments with me as the manager of
this particular business and they go
away and work as a group to construct
the questions that they need to answer a
day need answers in order to develop the
training plan now in addition to this
wiki there are also some websites that
I'll give them that have got fantastic
resources that i have not had to develop
and the talk about developing a training
plan they make regular meetings with me
appointments of 20 minutes work it as a
formal meeting between consultants and
manager and they will ask me questions
and basically i'll make up the answers
so they're consistent with the theme
this one here is regarding design
considerations on this type of pages are
expected to describe the current
characteristics of the assessment
solution and conductor strengths and
weaknesses and
analysis of the of that particular
solution they then having come up with a
set of principles and a set of options
they then determine their set of
recommendations and again this is all
the information they get on the page and
they also have to provide records of all
the meeting this is the demographics
which I really won't spend very much
time on apart from to say that their
technical skill level varies most of
them rate themselves intermediate 1
rates themselves as a beginner for
recognize themselves as experienced in
terms of the use of access and use of
the wiki you can see quite clearly that
the vast majority so that found them
easy to access and easy to use only one
person indicated that the the wiki was
difficult to use and this was the
individual who also rated themselves as
a beginner they had no trouble accessing
the wiki well that trouble with was
actually using the wiki what did they
like about the Winkies and watched what
didn't they like about them they like
the flexibility of access and yes they
like the idea of a single centralized
document they like the idea that you
could track previous in it is and they
really liked the idea that there was no
no requirement for hard copy submission
so this wiki was the submission one
person said that the initial setup was
not as intuitive as i would have liked
it to be there's a they were looking for
more technical capacity in a similar in
the vein of sort of microsoft word type
capacity some of them tried to use the
discussion option on the wiki they found
it really wasn't very effective they
went back to other options like email
whilst i like flexibility of access and
use of one of the complaints one group
was that there was a bit of a problem in
co-ordinating who was changing what and
the other comment last one is that not
all members participated now these are
not comments that are atypical of growth
based learning and I think it's hard to
tribute those concerns to the wiki a
concern about group dynamic so in terms
of teaching recommendations was that I
would have liked a quick reference guide
that would have helped them at the
beginning of the wiki and then once they
get going and they've started to use the
wiki they will then saying well
I use it so you support really good
learning so I've got over the technical
stuff now I want to know how can use it
to learn in terms of continued use and
you can see that nine support the
continued use in the existing program
and they said that they would like to
see with these and other courses this is
this is an indicator that they see value
in the wikis there were six people who
said that they felt the wikis have
potential in their own teaching that
they might be able use them and of those
three said that I went where it would
intend to use wiki's within the next 12
months one was unsure and one said know
where people saw the potential but they
weren't going to implement the reasons
that they talked about in terms of
implementation were much more about
organizational infrastructure the
culture of the organization that though
in that it would be very difficult for
them to implement them employment so in
terms of what have I learned the
experience matters all of the people in
this group who said that I saw potential
for wiki's and they would implement
within 12 months had rated themselves as
experienced users of Technology and
found wiki's easy to access and easy to
use secondly only wiki's don't do
everything probably if you're looking
for communication it's better to use
something else and it's limited interest
because of the the format of the
interface and it certainly doesn't fix
the problems of group dynamics you still
have to keep on top of them and in this
sort of scenario I still think that
suture is absolutely critical in
maintaining the effectiveness of the
whole thing
you